REP-358: new Replicator Schema Translation Demo (#304)
confluentinc/examples: replicator-schema-translation/docs/index.rst

.. _quickstart-demos-replicator-schema-translation:

Replicator Schema Translation Demo
==================================

> This |crep| demo showcases the transfer of schemas stored in Confluent Schema Registry from one cluster to another.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This |crep| demo showcases the transfer of schemas stored in |sr-long| from one cluster to another.
```

========
Overview
========

> Confluent Replicator features the ability to translate entries from a source Schema Registry to a destination Schema Registry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
|crep| features the ability to translate entries from a source |sr| to a destination |sr|.
```

> This demo provides a docker-compose environment with source and destination Schema Registries in which Schemas will be translated. In this demo we will create an entry in the source Schema Registry and translate it to the destination.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This demo provides a docker-compose environment with source and destination registries in which schemas are translated. In this demo, you create an entry in the source |sr| and translate it to the destination.
```

> The scripts directory provides examples of the operations that must be performed to prepare for the translation as well as JSON |crep| configurations required.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``scripts`` directory provides examples of the operations that you must perform to prepare for the translation, as well as JSON |crep| configurations required.
```

=============
Prerequisites
=============

**Demo validated with:**

> -  Confluent Platform |version|

Reviewer: ```suggestion
-  |cp| |version|
```

-  Docker 19.03.2
-  Docker-compose 1.24.1
-  Java version 1.8.0_162
-  MacOS 10.12

1. Clone the `examples GitHub repository <https://github.com/confluentinc/examples>`__.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>      $ git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     git clone https://github.com/confluentinc/examples
```

2. Change directory to the Schema Translation demo.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>      $ cd examples/replicator-schema-translation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
     cd examples/replicator-schema-translation
```

> 3. Start the entire demo by running a single command. This automatically creates source and destination clusters and adds a Schema to the source cluster Schema Registry. This will take less than 5 minutes to complete.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start the entire demo by running a single command that creates source and destination clusters automatically and adds a schema to the source cluster |sr|. This takes less than 5 minutes to complete.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ docker-compose up -d

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker-compose up -d
```

>    Verify the demo has completely started by using Google Chrome to view the Schema Registries, the source cluster is at: http://localhost:8085/subjects (you should see: ``["testTopic-value"]``) and the destinartion cluster is at: http://localhost:8086/subjects (you should see: ``[]``).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Verify the demo has completely started by using Google Chrome to view the Schema Registries. The source cluster is at: ``http://localhost:8085/subjects`` (you should see: ``["testTopic-value"]``) and the destination cluster is at: ``http://localhost:8086/subjects`` (you should see: ``[]``).
```

> 4. To prepare for Schema translation the source cluster Schema Registry must be put in "READONLY" mode and the destination in "IMPORT" mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. To prepare for schema translation, you must put the source cluster registry in "READONLY" mode and the destination registry in "IMPORT" mode.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_pre_translation.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_pre_translation.sh
```

>    This should produce:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Your output should resemble:
```

>    .. sourcecode:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. sourcecode:: json
```

      {"mode":"READONLY"}{"mode":"IMPORT"}

> 5. Now we submit Replicator to perform the translation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Submit |crep| to perform the translation.
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/submit_replicator.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/submit_replicator.sh
```

>    This should produce:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Your output should resemble:
```

>    .. sourcecode:: bash

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   .. sourcecode:: json
```

      {"name":"testReplicator","config":{"connector.class":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.ReplicatorSourceConnector","topic.whitelist":"_schemas","topic.rename.format":"${topic}.replica","key.converter":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.util.ByteArrayConverter","value.converter":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.util.ByteArrayConverter","src.kafka.bootstrap.servers":"srcKafka1:10091","dest.kafka.bootstrap.servers":"destKafka1:11091","tasks.max":"1","confluent.topic.replication.factor":"1","schema.subject.translator.class":"io.confluent.connect.replicator.schemas.DefaultSubjectTranslator","schema.registry.topic":"_schemas","schema.registry.url":"http://destSchemaregistry:8086","name":"testReplicator"},"tasks":[],"type":"source"}

> 6. Now verify the translation by revisiting the Schema Registries at: http://localhost:8085/subjects and: http://localhost:8086/subjects. They should both now list schemas with the destination cluster showing ``["testTopic.replica-value"]``:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Now verify the translation by revisiting the registries at: ``http://localhost:8085/subjects`` and ``http://localhost:8086/subjects``. They should both list schemas with the destination cluster showing ``["testTopic.replica-value"]``.
```

> 7. To complete the demo return both Schema Registries to ``READWRITE`` mode:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. To complete the demo return both clusters to ``READWRITE`` mode:
```

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_post_translation.sh

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker-compose exec connect /etc/kafka/scripts/set_sr_modes_post_translation.sh
```

========
Teardown
========

1. Stop the demo, destroy all local components.

   .. sourcecode:: bash

>       $ docker-compose down

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      docker-compose down
```
